# SCT_DS_1
<h1><b>SCT_DS_1: Skillcraft Technology Internship :</b></h1>
<p>Welcome to the repository for my internship tasks at Skillcraft Technology, where I'm working as a Data Science Intern. This repository contains projects focused on building practical skills in data analysis and data visualization tools, such as Microsoft Excel and Power BI.</p>

<p>Task 1: Gender Distribution Visualization with Excel In this task, I've created a bar chart in Excel to visualize gender distribution within a population. Microsoft Excel is a powerful tool widely used for data management, analysis, and visualization across various fields. This project introduces the basics of Excel for data visualization, highlighting its versatility in presenting data insights effectively.  Bar Chart Overview: A bar chart is a common visualization tool that uses rectangular bars to represent data values, making it easy to compare categories and track changes over time. Here’s a breakdown of  key features that enhance the effectiveness of bar charts:  Bars: Represent individual categories or groups. Can be displayed vertically or horizontally, with each bar's length indicating its value.  Axes: *X-Axis: Represents categories (e.g., gender, products). *Y-Axis: Shows values associated with each category (e.g., counts, percentages).  Labels: Display exact values or category names on each bar, making data interpretation clearer.  Spacing: Spaces between bars improve readability and distinguish each category.  Color Coding: Different colors represent various groups or segments (e.g., gender, regions).  Data Scaling: Axes are scaled to fit data accurately, often starting from zero for clarity.  Comparative Views: Ideal for comparing values across different groups.  Chart Variants: Grouped Bar Chart: Useful for comparisons within multiple categories. Stacked Bar Chart: Highlights the parts of a whole within each bar.  This task provides a foundational exercise in data visualization and analysis within Excel. Feel free to explore the repository, and connect with me on LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/in/somnathsen003 if you have any questions or feedback.</p>
